Spicy Arrabiata Penne
  Prep time: 20 mins
  Servings: 6
  Ingredients:
    Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
    1 pound penne rigate (penne pasta with ridges) 
    1/4 cup olive oil 
    3 cloves garlic, chopped 
    One 26.42-ounce container chopped tomatoes, such as Pomi 
    1/2 teaspoon red chile flakes 
    1/2 teaspoon Italian seasoning 
    6 leaves fresh basil, chopped, plus more for garnish
    Block of Parmigiano-Reggiano, for garnish
 Directions:
  Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add kosher salt to the boiling water, then add the pasta. Cook according to the package instructions, about 9 minutes.
  In a large skillet over medium-high heat, add the olive oil and heat until the oil starts to shimmer. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, 1 to 2 minutes. 
  Add the chopped tomatoes, red chile flakes, Italian seasoning and salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a boil and cook for 5 minutes. 
  Remove from the heat and add the chopped basil.
  Drain the pasta and add it to the sauce. Garnish with Parmigiano-Reggiano flakes and more basil and serve warm.

Spicy Chicken Pasta
  Prep time: 35 mins
  Servings: 2
  Ingredients:
 1x 9oz/250g Chicken Breast, at room temp
 2 tsp Olive Oil
 1/2 tsp Smoked Paprika
 1/2 tsp Cayenne Pepper
 1/4 tsp Salt
 1/4 tsp Black Pepper
 7oz / 200g Linguine (or other long cut pasta)
 2/3 cup / 160ml Heavy/Double Cream
 1/3 cup / 80ml Chicken Stock
 1/4 cup / 60ml Dry White Wine
 1oz / 30g Parmesan, finely grated
 6 (2oz/60g) Sun Dried Tomatoes, finely diced
 2 tbsp Tomato Puree (tomato paste in US)
 1 tbsp Butter
 1 tbsp Fresh Parsley, finely diced
 1 small Onion, finely diced
 1 tsp Garlic, minced
 1/2 tsp Chilli Flakes
 Salt & Pepper, to taste
    Directions:
    In a small bowl, combine 2 tsp olive oil, 1/2 tsp smoked paprika and cayenne pepper, and 1/4 tsp salt and black pepper.
    Butterfly your chicken breast right the way through to make 2 even sized breasts. Coat in spicy marinade.
    
    Place in a skillet over medium-high heat and fry for 3mins each side, or until nicely charred and just cooked through the centre 
    (depending on thickness may take more or less time). Place to one side and when ready, slice into thin strips, ensuring you slice 
    against the natural grain of the chicken and at a slight angle.
    
    Turn heat down to medium and melt in 1 tbsp butter, scraping off the flavour from the chicken with a wooden spoon. Add your onion and fry until it 
    begins to soften and pick up colour. 
    Add 1 tsp garlic, fry for 1-2mins longer, then add 1/2 tsp chilli flakes. Fry for 1 min longer, then add sun dried tomatoes. Fry for another minute 
    just to soften them, then pour in 1/4cup/60ml dry white wine. Allow the wine to completely reduce (important to burn offthe alcohol, should take 5 or 
    so mins).
    
    Meanwhile, add 7oz/200g pasta to salted boiling water and cook until al dente. Retain a cup of starchy pasta water towards the end of cooking.
    
    Add 2 tbsp tomato puree to the pan. Fry this for 2mins (important to sweeten the taste) then deglaze the pan with 1/3cup/80ml chicken stock. Pour in 
    2/3cup/160ml heavy/double cream and season to taste with salt & pepper.
    
    Use pasta tongs to add pasta in and toss to combine. Add 1oz/30g freshly grated parmesan, 1 tbsp fresh parsley and your chicken strips. Toss again to 
    coat, using your starchy pasta water to thin out if needed.
    
    
 Spicy Sausage Pasta
 Prep time: 30 mins
 Servings: 4
 Ingredients:
  1 tbsp olive oil
1 lb smoked sausage
1.5 cups diced onion
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 cups low-sodium chicken broth
1 (10 oz) can Ro-Tel tomatoes and green chiles, Mild
1/2 cup heavy cream
8 oz penne pasta
1/2 teaspoon salt and pepper, each
1 cup Monterey Jack cheese, shredded
1/3 cup thinly sliced scallions

Directions:
  
    Add olive oil to an oven-safe skillet over medium high heat until just smoking. Add sausage and onions and cook until lightly browned, about 4 minutes. 
    Add garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds.
    
    Add broth, tomatoes, cream, pasta, salt and pepper and stir. Bring to a boil, cover skillet, and reduce heat to medium-low. Simmer until pasta is tender, 
    about 15 minutes.
    
    Remove skillet from heat and stir in 1/2 cup cheese. Top with remaining cheese and sprinkle with scallions. Broil until cheese is melted, 
    spotty brown, and bubbly.

Spicy Spaghetti 
Prep time: 15 mins
Servings: 6
Ingredients:
    Kosher salt
    1 pound (450 grams) spaghetti
    1/3 cup good-quality extra-virgin olive oil
    Optional: 1/2 cup breadcrumbs
    2 to 3 cloves garlic, finely minced
    1/2 teaspoon dried red chile pepper flakes (or 1 to 2 dried pepperoncini chile peppers, crushed)
    Optional: 1/4 cup chopped flat-leaf parsley leaves
    
Directions:
  
Set a large covered pot of water over high heat to boil.

When it reaches a rolling boil, salt the water and add the spaghetti, giving a few stirs to keep the pasta from clumping together.

Meanwhile, in a medium skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat and add the breadcrumbs if using (if you are not including the 
breadcrumbs, skip to the next step). Toast the crumbs in the oil, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon, until browned, about 3 minutes.

Add the minced garlic and continue cooking until it is just fragrant and lightly colored, about 1 minute. Be careful not to 
overcook the garlic or it will become bitter. 

Add the red chile pepper (dried or fresh) and chopped parsley, if using. Cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. 

When your pasta is al dente, drain it, reserving a few tablespoons of the cooking water.

Add the spaghetti to the skillet and toss until evenly coated. Add a little bit of the pasta cooking water 
as needed if the mixture is too dry. Serve and enjoy. 


Spicy Veggie Pasta
Prep time: 25 mins
Servings: 2
Ingredients:
    2 cups pasta, cooked (I used fusilli),
    1 medium sized chili pepper, sliced
    2 tablespoons olive oil,
    1 medium-sized carrot, julienned
    2 medium-sized onions, cut lengthwise
    2 tablespoons garlic cloves, chopped
    1 teaspoon fennel seeds (saunf) (optional)
    4 tablespoons tomato puree
    1 medium sized tomato, chopped
    1 teaspoon sugar (optional)
    4 tablespoons milk cream
    1/2 teaspoon black pepper powder
    1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
    Salt, as per taste
    1/4 cup shredded processed cheese
    
Directions:
    Heat oil in a pan. Add carrot and onions. Saute them for 3-4 minutes.
    Add fennel seeds, chopped garlic, chili peppers, black pepper powder, cayenne pepper, and salt.
    Mix well, and saute for 3-4 minutes.
    Now add chopped tomatoes, sugar (if using), and tomato puree to it.
    Mix well and cook for about 10 minutes on low heat.
    Add milk cream and mix well. Cook it for 1 minute.
    Now add cooked pasta, and shredded cheese.
    Mix well, and cook for 1 more minute.
    Remove from heat. Serve hot with any of your favorite bread and drinks. Enjoy.

Spicy Tomato Cream Pasta
Prep time: 15 mins
Servings: 4
Ingredients:
     1 tablespoon olive oil
     1 small onion, diced
     2 garlic cloves, minced
     1/2 teaspoon dried basil
     1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
     1 (24-ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
     1/2 cup heavy cream
     1/4 teaspoon black pepper
     1/4 teaspoon salt
     1 pound angel hair pasta
Directions:
    Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add onion and cook for 3 minutes.
    Add garlic, basil, and red pepper flakes and cook 1 minute.
    Add spaghetti sauce, heavy cream, salt and pepper. Simmer for 10 minutes, or until thickened to your liking.
    Cook pasta according to package directions, drain and mix together with sauce.
